SCP 3192: ACTUS module refactoring (#173)
input-output-hk/marlowe-cardano: marlowe-cli/examples/actus/ReadMe.md

# Test of an ACTUS Contract (Zero-Coupon Bond)

This zero-coupon bond has one party borrow and another pay back with interest. It uses role tokens.

## Prerequisites

The environment variable `CARDANO_NODE_SOCKET_PATH` must be set to the path to the cardano node's socket.
See below for how to set `MAGIC` to select the network.

The following tools must be on the PATH:
* [marlowe-cli](../../ReadMe.md)
* [cardano-cli](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node/blob/master/cardano-cli/README.md)
* [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/manual/)
* sed

Signing and verification keys must be provided below for the two parties, or they will be created automatically: to do this, set the environment variables `LENDER_PREFIX` and `BORROWER_PREFIX` where they appear below.

## Preliminaries

### Select Network

```
if [[ -z "$MAGIC" ]]
then
  MAGIC=1567
fi
```

> MAGIC=1566

Author: The file `ReadMe.md` is generated by `make ReadMe.md` - the `MAGIC` is put into the file for reference:
https://github.com/input-output-hk/marlowe-cardano/blob/b1d8a38767365185dc360ccaf669b0eaf99096b1/marlowe-cli/examples/actus/run-actus.sh#L31

INTEREST_RATE=1/50
INTEREST=$((PRINCIPAL*$INTEREST_RATE))
STATUS_DATE=$(date -d "$(date -u -R -d @$(($NOW/1000)))" +"%Y-%m-%dT00:00:00")
INITIAL_EXCHANGE_DATE=$(date -d "$(date -u -R -d @$(($NOW/1000))) + 1 year" +"%Y-01-01T00:00:00")
MATURITY_DATE=$(date -d "$(date -u -R -d @$(($NOW/1000))) + 2 year" +"%Y-01-01T00:00:00")
LENDING_DEADLINE=$((NOW+12*HOUR))
REPAYMENT_DEADLINE=$((NOW+24*HOUR))
ACTUS_TERMS_FILE=$(mktemp)
cat > "$ACTUS_TERMS_FILE" << EOF
{
  "scheduleConfig": {
    "businessDayConvention": "NULL",
    "endOfMonthConvention": "EOM",
    "calendar": "NC"
  },
  "maturityDate": "$MATURITY_DATE",
  "contractId": "0",
  "enableSettlement": false,
  "initialExchangeDate": "$INITIAL_EXCHANGE_DATE",
  "contractRole": "RPA",
  "penaltyType": "O",
  "cycleAnchorDateOfInterestPayment": "$INITIAL_EXCHANGE_DATE",
  "contractType": "PAM",
  "notionalPrincipal": $PRINCIPAL,
  "contractPerformance": "PF",
  "collateralAmount": 0,
  "dayCountConvention": "30E360",
  "accruedInterest": 0,
  "statusDate": "$STATUS_DATE",
  "cycleOfInterestPayment": "P1YL1",
  "prepaymentEffect": "N",
  "nominalInterestRate": `jq -n $INTEREST_RATE`,
  "interestCalculationBase": "NT"
}
EOF
```

> The contract has a minimum-ADA requirement and two timeouts. It also specifies that the lender John Fletcher will pay principal of 10000 ada before Fri, 12 Aug 2022 08:11:01 +0000 and the borrower will repay the principal and interest of 200 ada before Fri, 12 Aug 2022 20:11:01 +0000.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The contract has a minimum-ADA requirement and two timeouts. It also specifies that the lender John Fletcher will pay principal of 10,000 ADA before Fri, 12 Aug 2022 08:11:01 +0000 and the borrower will repay the principal and interest of 200 ADA before Fri, 12 Aug 2022 20:11:01 +0000.
```

```
marlowe-cli run initialize --testnet-magic "$MAGIC"                  \
                           --socket-path "$CARDANO_NODE_SOCKET_PATH" \
                           --roles-currency "$ROLE_CURRENCY"         \
                           --contract-file tx-1.contract             \
                           --state-file    tx-1.state                \
                           --out-file      tx-1.marlowe              \
                           --print-stats
```

```console
Validator size: 12611
Base-validator cost: ExBudget {exBudgetCPU = ExCPU 24562825, exBudgetMemory = ExMemory 82600}
```

In particular, we can extract the contract's address from the `.marlowe` file.

```
CONTRACT_ADDRESS=$(jq -r '.marloweValidator.address' tx-1.marlowe)
```

The Marlowe contract resides at address `addr_test1wq07qd5ph5l49y89wfx00k8f9tsndwy9rgre95cg30eutschr4le5`.

Because this is a role-based contract, we compute the address of the script for roles.

```
ROLE_ADDRESS=$(jq -r '.rolesValidator.address' tx-1.marlowe)
```

The role address is `addr_test1wr6m6dv8v75gl7hfmnzaltlrph8wr90vqg0m72a4gwrzphcd7qsj4`.

> The lender John Fletcher submits the transaction along with the minimum ADA 3000000 lovelace required for the contract's initial state. Submitting with the `--print-stats` switch reveals the network fee for the contract, the size of the transaction, and the execution requirements, relative to the protocol limits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The lender John Fletcher submits the transaction along with the minimum ADA amount of 3,000,000 lovelace required for the contract's initial state. Submitting with the `--print-stats` switch reveals the network fee for the contract, the size of the transaction, and the execution requirements, relative to the protocol limits.
```

Author: Thanks, added `amount of` here

```
TX_1=$(
marlowe-cli run execute --testnet-magic "$MAGIC"                  \
                        --socket-path "$CARDANO_NODE_SOCKET_PATH" \
                        --tx-in "$TX_0_LENDER_ADA"                \
                        --required-signer "$LENDER_PAYMENT_SKEY"  \
                        --marlowe-out-file tx-1.marlowe           \
                        --change-address "$LENDER_ADDRESS"        \
                        --out-file tx-1.raw                       \
                        --print-stats                             \
                        --submit=600                              \
| sed -e 's/^TxId "\(.*\)"$/\1/'                                  \
)
```

```console
Fee: Lovelace 191241
Size: 572 / 32768 = 1%
Execution units:
  Memory: 0 / 30000000 = 0%
  Steps: 0 / 10000000000 = 0%
```

> The contract received the minimum ADA of 3000000 lovelace from the lender John Fletcher in the transaction `06ee9291aada5c6d8a6f4a29646f5c0d4619697a5f9ccd0de9313256f02635f1`.  Here is the UTxO at the contract address:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The contract received the minimum ADA amount of 3,000,000 lovelace from the lender John Fletcher in the transaction `06ee9291aada5c6d8a6f4a29646f5c0d4619697a5f9ccd0de9313256f02635f1`.  Here is the UTxO at the contract address:
```

                        --tx-in-marlowe "$TX_1"#1                               \
                        --tx-in-collateral "$TX_1"#0                            \
                        --tx-in "$TX_1"#0                                       \
                        --tx-in "$TX_0_LENDER_TOKEN"                            \
                        --required-signer "$LENDER_PAYMENT_SKEY"                \
                        --marlowe-out-file tx-2.marlowe                         \
                        --tx-out "$LENDER_ADDRESS+$MINIMUM_ADA+1 $LENDER_TOKEN" \
                        --change-address "$LENDER_ADDRESS"                      \
                        --out-file tx-2.raw                                     \
                        --print-stats                                           \
                        --submit=600                                            \
| sed -e 's/^TxId "\(.*\)"$/\1/'                                                \
)
```

```console
Fee: Lovelace 1397789
Size: 13750 / 32768 = 41%
Execution units:
  Memory: 7501806 / 30000000 = 25%
  Steps: 2564286091 / 10000000000 = 25%
```

> The contract passed the deposit of 10000 ADA in the transaction `ddbfdb164c204f627f8ab7f849c96a901901d0b6fecb2307eda60ca1f921d5ef` from the lender to the role address, for the benefit of the borrower. Here is the UTxO at the contract address:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The contract passed the deposit of 10,000 ADA in the transaction `ddbfdb164c204f627f8ab7f849c96a901901d0b6fecb2307eda60ca1f921d5ef` from the lender to the role address, for the benefit of the borrower. Here is the UTxO at the contract address:
```

                        --tx-in-marlowe "$TX_4"#1                                   \
                        --tx-in "$TX_4"#0                                           \
                        --tx-in "$TX_4"#3                                           \
                        --tx-in-collateral "$TX_4"#0                                \
                        --required-signer "$BORROWER_PAYMENT_SKEY"                  \
                        --marlowe-out-file tx-5.marlowe                             \
                        --tx-out "$BORROWER_ADDRESS+$MINIMUM_ADA+1 $BORROWER_TOKEN" \
                        --change-address "$BORROWER_ADDRESS"                        \
                        --out-file tx-5.raw                                         \
                        --print-stats                                               \
                        --submit=600                                                \
| sed -e 's/^TxId "\(.*\)"$/\1/'                                                    \
)
```

```console
Fee: Lovelace 1112645
Size: 13246 / 32768 = 40%
Execution units:
  Memory: 4300844 / 30000000 = 14%
  Steps: 1478686295 / 10000000000 = 14%
```

> The closing of the contract paid in the transaction `20f1986772267260e2c3ef4dd5f5c78b94ab41b97385dff8452818860bdf47cd` the 10000 ada principal and 200 ada interest to the role address for the benefit of the lender John Fletcher, along with the minimum ADA 3000000 lovelace that they deposited when creating the contract. There is no UTxO at the contract address:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The closing of the contract paid in the transaction `20f1986772267260e2c3ef4dd5f5c78b94ab41b97385dff8452818860bdf47cd` the 10,000 ADA principal and 200 ADA interest to the role address for the benefit of the lender John Fletcher, along with the minimum ADA amount of 3,000,000 lovelace that they deposited when creating the contract. There is no UTxO at the contract address:
```
